Crafting the Anti-User button

The year was 1998. The best console available was Playstation 1. Twisted metal 2 was the only game we played. Computers were restricted to desktops, no one carried one in their pocket. The world wide web was just released to the public. 

A friend of mine showed me a program his brother had made on the computer. At the time, i knew nothing about coding. It was very simple, a button appeared in the middle of a window. It had a caption, "click here to keep an idiot entertained for hours." And so, I attempted to click on the button. To my surprise, the button moved away from the cursor. So, I tried moving in from a different direction. The button moved out of reach once again. You see, the button was not meant to be clicked on. My friend had created the "anti-user button".

Fast forward to March 2024, chat gpt 3.5 is the current version of a.i released by open ai. I had used it to help with a few projects before, so I tried to recreate this anti user button. 

The easiest way for me to do this was using html/javascript. One file to rule them all and in the darkness bind them. "reference a quote from lord of the rings"
I described the behavior of the anti user button to chat gpt. Initially, it tried to correct me and make a button that wouldn't move. However, I explained the idea of an anti user button, one that can be seen but never touched. After that, it promptly provided a solution to my prompt with some javascript.

After crafting the javascript version, I quickly used chat gpt to rewrite the code in several other programming languages. Python, c#, java swing, Rust( if you are into that sort of thing), and even visual basic for an Excel spreadsheet.  

To begin I wrote some css for the style of the button.

"insert code snippet"

For the caption of the button, I use, "Click here to unsubscribe" . An unsubscribe button would be the perfect way to use this creation.

I used the jquery javascript library -3.6.0.min.js . The code was fairly simple. I add a button tag inside the body. Then include the javascript inside a script tag. 
I query the document, then the button and the window. I set some variables to define the document, window, start_x, start_y, speed, mouseNearThreshold(distance from cursor), and an interval.

Then, I call a mousemove event function. I set variables for x and y locations on top of button. 
I set var dx and dy = x-x0 and y - y0. Then i create a variable to calculate distance bewteen mouse cursor and the button center. 
Create an if statement that compares distance to the threshold of the mouse cursor.
I used a variable that creates a random angle using the Math method in javascript. 
The dx and dy position is multiplied by cos and sin.

If the button moves far enough away from the center, it will recenter automatically, when the mouse cursor is no longer detected.

A couple lines of code are added to keep the button inside of the window bounds.

I also create a 'click' event that does nothing, in case the button is somehow pressed. The point of this exercise is to make a button that moves away from the user's cursor.

I add a function to move the button to the center of the window.

Some math methods are used to determine the location of the button in relation to the mouse cursor. 
The function calculates the size of the button started at the top left corner.

Code for this thought excercise can be found at https://github.com/feenix100/chatgptButton
